Israeli forces have fired tear gas on
young Palestinians who've been trying to
get into Thea MOS compound for Friday
prayers Laura Khan reports from occupied
East
Jerusalem I'm in W jar in occupied East
Jerusalem I'm about 100 meters away from
the Ala MOS compound which was revered
at to Muslims as the third holiest site
in Islam however this Friday many are
not allowed to enter this has been going
on for around 11 consecutive weeks I
just want to show you uh surrounding me
there are many Palestinian and Muslim
youths Hang on we're being fired at with
tear gas at the moment um so just want
to show you what's going on this
surrounded by tear gas we're just trying
to find an exit they have been
immediately attacked and so so usually
there were around 50 to
60,000 Muses allowed into the mosque in
the past couple of weeks weeks has only
been around 3,000 the Israelis say this
is to reduce
confrontations but of course you can see
what's happening around there have been
serious confrontations on a weekly
basis we were just hit pretty badly by
tear gas now we have more police behind
us more out in front and there's been a
skunk water truck it's been driving down
the road which usually shoots some very
powerful nasty water people that can
stick to their clothes for hours on end
but the entire point of this is there
are usually between 50 and 60,000 people
allowed to pray in the mosque with
severe restrictions they've only allowed
around 3 to 4,000 in the last couple of
weeks and you can see just the side we
have more police we have some tear gas
ready to fire and many of the people
that they are dispersing are younger
than 45 they say anyone older than 45
isn't allowed into the mosque the
Israelis say they haven't put age
restrictions but people here say it's
clear this morning we have only seen old
men and women entering the mosque so uh
the Palestinian minister of sorry the
Palestinian foreign minister has put out
a statement condemning the
violence as you can see there's more Tas
but people say no no matter what the
condemnations this is the reality on the
ground it's not stop stopping violence
it's producing more
violence